Graduate visa
1. Overview
A Graduate visa gives you permission to stay in the UK for at least 18
months after successfully completing an eligible course in the UK.
You must be in the UK when you apply.
Eligibility
You can apply for a Graduate visa if all of the following are true:
you’re in the UK
your current visa is a Student visa or Tier 4 (General) student visa
https://www.gov.uk/student-visa
you studied a UK bachelor’s degree, postgraduate degree or other
eligible course for a minimum period of time with your Student visa or Tier
4 (General) student visa
your education provider (such as your university or college) has told the
Home Office you’ve successfully completed your course
You can ask your education provider if you’re not sure whether they’ve told
the Home Office you’ve successfully completed your course.
Check if your course is eligible and how long you need to have studied in
the UK https://www.gov.uk/graduate-visa/course-you-studied.
If you’re not eligible for a Graduate visa, you may be eligible for another
type of visa to stay in the UK https://www.gov.uk/check-uk-visa.
How long you can stay
A Graduate visa lasts for:
2 years if you apply on or before 31 December 2026
18 months if you apply on or after 1 January 2027
If you have a PhD or other doctoral qualification, it will last for 3 years.

Your visa will start from the day your application is approved.
If you want to stay longer in the UK
You cannot extend your Graduate visa. However, you may be able to switch
to a different visa, for example a Skilled Worker visa https://www.gov.uk/skilled-worker-visa.
Check you can apply for another type of visa to stay in the UK (/check-uk-
visa).
How to apply
You must apply online for a Graduate visa https://www.gov.uk/graduate-visa/apply.
Your partner and children https://www.gov.uk/graduate-visa/your-partner-and-children can also
apply to stay in the UK if they are eligible.
When to apply
You must apply before your Student visa or Tier 4 (General) student visa
expires.
You can apply after your education provider (such as your university or
college) has told the Home Office that you’ve successfully completed the
course you took with your Student or Tier 4 (General) student visa. You do
not have to wait until you’ve graduated or have been given a certificate.
As part of your application, you’ll need to prove your identity and provide
your documents.
Your application may take longer if you need an appointment to do this.
You’ll find out if you need one when you start your application.
Getting a decision
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your
documents, you’ll usually get a decision on your visa within 8 weeks.
You can stay in the UK while you wait for a decision.
How much it costs
When you apply for a Graduate visa, you’ll need to:

pay the £880 application fee
pay the healthcare surcharge - this is usually £1,035 for each year you’ll
be in the UK
Check how much it will cost https://www.gov.uk/graduate-visa/how-much-it-costs.
If you work in public sector healthcare
If you’re a doctor or nurse, or you work in health or adult social care, check
if you’re eligible to apply for the Health and Care Worker visa (/health-care-
worker-visa) instead. It’s cheaper to apply for and you do not need to pay the
annual immigration health surcharge.
If you get a job in public sector healthcare after you have paid the
healthcare surcharge, you may be able to get a refund (/apply-immigration-
health-surcharge-refund).
What you can and cannot do
With a Graduate visa you can:
work in most jobs
look for work
be self-employed
continue living in the UK with your partner and children (/graduate-
visa/your-partner-and-children), if they’re eligible
travel abroad and return to the UK
do voluntary work
Any voluntary work you do must be unpaid and for one of the following:
a registered charity https://www.gov.uk/find-charity-information
a voluntary organisation
an associated fundraising body (an organisation that raises money for a
charity or voluntary organisation)
a statutory body (a government-appointed body, for example Historic
England)
You cannot:
apply for most benefits (public funds (/government/publications/public-funds-
-2)), or the State Pension

work as a professional sportsperson
If your application is successful, you’ll get a full list of what you can and
cannot do with a Graduate visa.
Studying with a Graduate visa
You can only study with a Graduate visa if your chosen course is not eligible
for a Student visa https://www.gov.uk/student-visa/course. If your course is eligible for a Student
visa, you can extend your Student visa https://www.gov.uk/student-visa/extend-your-visa
instead.
You may need an Academic Technology Approval Scheme (ATAS)
certificate https://www.gov.uk/guidance/academic-technology-approval-scheme if you’re studying
or researching sensitive topics.
2. The course you studied
To be eligible for a Graduate visa, you need to have successfully completed
the course you took with your current Student visa or Tier 4 (General)
student visa.
Whether you can apply will also depend on:
the education provider for your course, for example your university or
college
the kind of course you took
how long you studied in the UK for
If your education provider allowed you to change course without
applying for a new Student visa or Tier 4 (General) student visa, you
only need to have completed the course you changed to.
Your education provider
The education provider for your course must be a licensed sponsor with a
‘track record of compliance’.
Check if your education provider has a track record of compliance
https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/register-of-licensed-sponsors-students - it will have
‘Student Sponsor - Track Record’ in the ‘Status’ column.
Your course
You usually must have one of the following to apply:

a UK bachelor’s degree
a UK master’s degree
a UK PhD or doctorate
You can also apply if you completed any of the following:
a law conversion course approved by the Solicitors Regulation Authority
the Legal Practice Course in England and Wales, the Solicitors Course in
Northern Ireland, or a Diploma in Professional Legal Practice in Scotland
the Bar Practice Course in England and Wales, or the Bar Course in
Northern Ireland
a Postgraduate Certificate in Education (PGCE)
a Postgraduate Diploma in Education (PGDE)
You may also be able to apply if passing your course made you eligible for a
job that’s regulated by UK law or a UK public authority. Your education
provider can tell you if your course is eligible.
If you’re on a Student visa because you’re a Student Union Sabbatical
Officer
You can apply for a Graduate visa if you’re on your current Student visa or
Tier 4 (General) student visa because you’re a Student Union Sabbatical
Officer.
To be eligible, you need to have successfully completed one of these
courses in the UK just before you started your current visa.
How long you studied in the UK for
You need to have studied in the UK for either:
at least 12 months, if your course’s total length is more than 12 months
the total length of your course, if its total length is shorter than 12 months
You must also be in the UK when you apply for a Graduate visa.
What counts as time spent studying in the UK
Studying your course in the UK means that you were in the UK when your
education provider needed you to be there - for example, to go to lectures
or meet with a tutor.

Example
If you were taking a 1 year master’s degree, but left the UK during term
breaks or on weekends, that would still count as studying in the UK for 1
year.
If you could not study in the UK because of
coronavirus (COVID-19)
The rules on how long you need to have studied your course in the UK may
not apply if you needed to study outside the UK because of COVID-19.
Your Student visa or Tier 4 visa was for more than 12 months
You can count any time spent studying outside the UK between 24 January
2020 and 30 June 2022 as time spent studying in the UK.
Your Student visa or Tier 4 visa was for 12 months or less
You can apply if either of the following are true:
you started your course before 21 June 2021 and you entered the UK on
a Student visa on or before 27 September 2021
you started your course between 21 June 2021 and 30 June 2022 and
you entered the UK on a Student visa on or before 30 June 2022
3. How much it costs
When you apply for a Graduate visa, you’ll need to:
pay the £880 application fee
pay the healthcare surcharge - this is usually £1,035 for each year you’ll
be in the UK
You’ll be told how much you need to pay when you apply.
Healthcare surcharge
If you’re eligible for a Graduate visa for:
18 months - it will cost £1,152.50
2 years - it will cost £2,070

3 years - it will cost £3,105
If you work in public sector healthcare
If you get a job in public sector healthcare after you have paid the
healthcare surcharge, you may be able to get a refund (/apply-immigration-
health-surcharge-refund).
4. Documents you'll need to apply
When you apply you’ll need to provide:
a valid passport or other travel document that shows your identity and
nationality
your Confirmation of Acceptance for Studies (CAS) reference number
from when you applied for your Student visa or Tier 4 (General) student
visa
To prove you have a valid Student visa or Tier 4 (General) student visa,
you’ll need to provide either:
your biometric residence permit (BRP) - you can use it for 18 months
after the expiry date printed on the card
online proof of your immigration status if you have an eVisa - you’ll need
to get a share code https://www.gov.uk/view-prove-immigration-status
Your CAS reference number was sent to you by your education provider
when they offered you a place on the course you completed with your
Student visa. If you cannot find it, ask your education provider what it is.
Other documents you might need
Depending on your circumstances, you might be asked to provide:
proof of your relationship with your partner or children (/graduate-visa/your-
partner-and-children) if they’re applying with you
a letter from your scholarship or sponsorship provider approving your
application, if they paid for both your course fees and living costs in the
last 12 months
If your documents are not in English or Welsh you’ll also need to provide
a certified translation https://www.gov.uk/certifying-a-document.
When you’ve got your documents ready

You can apply online for a Graduate visa https://www.gov.uk/graduate-visa/apply once your
documents are ready.
5. Apply
You must apply online for a Graduate visa.
Check which documents you’ll need to apply (/graduate-visa/documents-youll-
need-to-apply).
Your partner or children https://www.gov.uk/graduate-visa/your-partner-and-children will need to
apply separately.
Proving your identity and providing supporting
documents
As part of your application, you’ll need to prove your identity. How you do
this depends on where you’re from and the type of passport or resident
permit you have.
You’ll either:
use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan your identity document -
you’ll also create or sign into your UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI)
account
have your fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a UK
Visa and Citizenship Application Services (UKVCAS) https://www.gov.uk/ukvcas service
point
You’ll be told what you need to do when you apply.
If you do need to go to a UKVCAS service point, they may need to keep
your passport and documents while they process your application.
You must not travel outside of the UK, Ireland, the Channel Islands or
the Isle of Man until you get a decision. Your application will be
withdrawn if you do.
Apply for a Graduate visa
Once you’ve started your application, you can save your form and complete
it later.
Start now

Continue your application
You can sign back into your application if you’ve saved it.
Find out how to sign in to your account https://www.gov.uk/sign-in-visa.
Get help to apply online
You can get help with completing the online form (/assisted-digital-help-online-
applications) if you:
do not feel confident using a computer or mobile device
do not have internet access
You can only use this service if you’re applying for a visa in the UK.
You cannot get immigration advice through this service.
How long it takes to get a decision
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your
documents, you’ll usually get a decision within 8 weeks.
After you apply
You’ll be contacted if your application will take longer, for example because:
your supporting documents need to be verified
of your personal circumstances, for example if you have a criminal
conviction
You can ask to cancel your application https://www.gov.uk/cancel-visa. You’ll only get your fee
refunded if UKVI has not started processing your application.
If your application is successful
You’ll get an eVisa (a digital record of your identity and immigration status).
Your decision email or letter will tell you how to get access to your eVisa
https://www.gov.uk/get-access-evisa. You’ll need to create a UKVI account.
6. Your partner and children

If your partner and children joined you in the UK as ‘dependants’ on your
current Student visa or Tier 4 (General) student visa, they can apply to stay
as dependants on your Graduate visa.
If your child was born in the UK during your current Student or Tier 4
(General) student visa, they can also apply.
If their application is successful, their visa will end on the same date as
yours.
A dependant partner or child is any of the following:
your husband, wife, civil partner or unmarried partner
your child under 18 - including if they were born in the UK during your
stay
your child over 18 if they currently have permission (‘leave to enter’ or
‘leave to remain’) to be in the UK as your dependant
Your partner
Your partner needs to have been a dependant on your Student visa or Tier 4
(General) student visa to apply. You’ll also need to show that they’re still
your partner.
You must be able to prove one of the following:
you’re in a civil partnership or marriage that’s recognised in the UK
you’ve been living together in a relationship for at least 2 years when you
apply
you’ve been in a relationship for at least 2 years when you apply but you
cannot live together, for example because you’re working or studying in
different places, or it’s not accepted in your culture
If you’re not living together, you’ll need to prove that you have an ongoing
commitment to each other, for example by providing evidence that you:
communicate regularly with each other
support each other financially
care for any children you have together
spend time together as a couple, for example on holiday or at events
Your child

Your child must:
live with you, unless they’re living away from home in full-time education -
for example, at boarding school or university
not be married or in a civil partnership
You’ll need to provide evidence of their address such as:
a bank statement
credit card bills
driving licence
NHS registration document
an official letter from their university or college
If your child is under 18
Your child usually needs to have been a dependant on your Student visa or
Tier 4 (General) student visa to apply.
They do not need to have been a dependant if both of the following apply:
they were born while you were in the UK on your current Student visa or
Tier 4 (General) student visa
they were born in the UK
You’ll need to provide proof that they’re your child - for example, a UK birth
certificate or a special guardianship order from a court.
New dependants may be able to join you from outside the UK if you
switch to a different visa, for example a Skilled Worker visa (/skilled-
worker-visa/your-partner-and-children).
If your child is 18 or over
They must have been a dependant on your Student visa or Tier 4 (General)
student visa.
Apply
Your partner and children must either:

apply online as your partner (https://apply-to-visit-or-stay-in-the-
uk.homeoffice.gov.uk/sort/start/graduate_pbs_dependant_partner_in_uk)
apply online as your child (https://apply-to-visit-or-stay-in-the-
uk.homeoffice.gov.uk/sort/start/brp_reuse_pbs_dependant_child_in_uk)
Each family member will need to complete a separate application and pay
the visa fee https://www.gov.uk/graduate-visa/how-much-it-costs.
They’ll need to provide a valid passport or other document that shows their
identity and nationality.
To prove they’re dependants on your Student visa or Tier 4 (General)
student visa, they’ll need to provide either:
their biometric residence permit (BRP) - they can use it for 18 months
after the expiry date printed on the card
online proof of their immigration status if they have an eVisa - they’ll need
to get a share code https://www.gov.uk/view-prove-immigration-status
They’ll also need your application number - you’ll get this when you apply.
This number is called a Unique Application Number (UAN). You’ll find it on
emails and letters from the Home Office about your application.
If your scholarship or sponsorship provider paid your partner or child’s
living costs in the last 12 months, your partner or child will need a letter
from the provider approving their Graduate visa application.
Proving their identity
As part of their application, your partner and children will need to prove their
identity. How they do this depends on where they’re from and the type of
passport or resident permit they have.
They’ll either:
use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan their identity document -
they’ll also create or sign into their UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI)
account
have their fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a UK
Visa and Citizenship Application Services (UKVCAS)
(https://www.gov.uk/ukvcas) service point
They’ll be told what they need to do when they apply.

The UKVCAS service point may need to keep your partner’s and children’s
passport and documents while processing their application.
They must not travel outside of the UK, Ireland, the Channel Islands or
the Isle of Man until they get a decision. Their application will be
withdrawn if they do.
How long it takes to get a decision
Once they’ve applied online, proved their identity and provided their
documents, they’ll usually get a decision within 8 weeks.
If their application is successful
They’ll get an eVisa (a digital record of their identity and immigration status).
Their decision email or letter will tell them how to get access to their eVisa
https://www.gov.uk/get-access-evisa. They’ll need to create a UKVI account.
Children born in the UK
If you have a child while you’re in the UK, they do not automatically become
a British citizen https://www.gov.uk/british-citizenship.
You must apply for your child’s dependant visa (https://apply-to-visit-or-stay-in-
the-uk.homeoffice.gov.uk/sort/start/pbs_dependant_child_in_uk) if you want to
travel in and out of the UK with them.
You’ll need to provide a full UK birth certificate for each child, showing the
names of both parents.

All content is available under the Open Government Licence v3.0, except where otherwise stated © Crown copyright