Visa Type: Health and Care Worker Visa
Country: UK
Category: work
Source: Official UK Government Immigration Guidelines

---

Health and Care Worker visa
1. Overview
A Health and Care Worker visa allows medical professionals to come to or stay
in the UK to do an eligible job with the NHS, an NHS supplier or in adult social
care.
Eligibility
Your job
To qualify for a Health and Care Worker visa, you must:
be a qualified doctor, nurse, health professional or adult social care
professional
work in an eligible health or social care job
work for a UK employer that’s been approved by the Home Office
have a ‘certificate of sponsorship’ from your employer with information about
the role you’ve been offered in the UK
be paid a minimum salary - how much depends on the type of work you do
Check if your job is eligible (/health-care-worker-visa/your-job).
You must have a confirmed job offer before you apply for your visa.
Knowledge of English
You must be able to speak, read, write and understand English. You’ll usually
need to prove your knowledge of English (/health-care-worker-visa/knowledge-of-
english) when you apply.
If you’re not eligible for a Health and Care Worker visa
 
 1/39

You may be eligible for another type of visa to work in the UK (/check-uk-visa).
How long you can stay
Your visa can last for up to 5 years before you need to extend it. You’ll need to
apply to extend or update your visa when it expires or if you change jobs or
employer.
If you want to stay longer in the UK
You can apply to extend your visa as many times as you like as long as you
still meet the eligibility requirements.
After 5 years, you may be able to apply to settle permanently in the UK (/settle-
in-the-uk/y/tier-2-general-visa-or-skilled-worker-visa) (also known as ‘indefinite
leave to remain’). This gives you the right to live, work and study here for as
long as you like, and apply for benefits if you’re eligible.
How to apply
You must apply online.
How you apply depends on whether you’re:
outside the UK (/health-care-worker-visa/apply-from-outside-the-uk) and are
coming to the UK
inside the UK and extending your current visa (/health-care-worker-visa/extend-
your-visa)
inside the UK and switching from a different visa (/health-care-worker-
visa/switch-to-this-visa)
If you want to change your job or employer, you must apply to update your visa
(/health-care-worker-visa/update-your-visa-if-you-change-job-or-employer).
Your partner and children (/health-care-worker-visa/your-partner-and-children) may
be able to apply to join you or stay in the UK as your ‘dependants’.
How long it takes
You can apply for a visa up to 3 months before the day you are due to start
work in the UK. This date is listed on your certificate of sponsorship.
 
 2/39

As part of your application, you’ll need to prove your identity and provide your
documents.
You may need to allow extra time if you need an appointment to do this. You’ll
find out if you need one when you start your application.
Getting a decision
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your
documents, you’ll usually get a decision on your visa within 3 weeks.
You may be able to pay to get a faster decision (/faster-decision-visa-settlement).
If your application is successful, your decision email (/apply-to-come-to-the-
uk/getting-a-decision-on-your-application) will tell you what you’ll get to prove your
immigration status and what you need to do next.
How much it costs
You, your partner or children will each need to:
pay the application fee
prove you have enough personal savings
Check how much money you’ll need (/health-care-worker-visa/how-much-it-costs).
Healthcare surcharge
You - and your partner or children - will not have to pay the healthcare
surcharge.
You can start using the NHS for free from the date your visa starts.
You’ll still need to pay for some services, such as prescriptions, dental
treatment, eye tests and assisted conception.
What you can and cannot do
You can:
work in an eligible job
 
 3/39

take on additional work (/health-care-worker-visa/taking-a-second-job) in certain
circumstances
study
bring your partner and children (/health-care-worker-visa/your-partner-and-
children) with you as your ‘dependants’, if you meet the eligibility criteria
travel abroad and return to the UK
apply to settle permanently in the UK (also known as ‘indefinite leave to
remain’) if you’ve lived in the UK for 5 years and meet the other eligibility
requirements
do voluntary work
Any voluntary work you do must be unpaid and for one of the following:
a registered charity (/find-charity-information)
a voluntary organisation 
an associated fundraising body (an organisation that raises money for a
charity or voluntary organisation)
a statutory body (a government-appointed body, for example Historic
England)
You cannot:
apply for most benefits (public funds (/government/publications/public-funds--2)),
or the State Pension
change jobs or employer unless you update your visa
If your application is successful, you’ll get a full list of what you can and cannot
do with a Health and Care Worker visa.
2. Your job
You must meet all of the following requirements to be eligible for a Health and
Care Worker visa:
you’re a qualified doctor, nurse, health professional or adult social care
professional
your job is eligible for this visa
you’ll be working for a UK health and care sector employer that’s been
approved by the Home Office
you’ll be paid the minimum salary or the ‘going rate’ for the type of work
you’ll be doing - whichever is higher
 
 4/39

Your employer must make sure your job pays at least the minimum wage
(/national-minimum-wage-rates) and follows the UK rules for how many hours a
week you work. If your employer does not do this, your application will be
refused.
Check if your job is eligible
Before you can find out if your job is eligible, you need to know its 4-digit
occupation code.
If you already have a job offer, ask your employer for your occupation
code.
Look up your job’s occupation code
If you do not know your code, you can search for your job in the CASCOT
occupation coding tool (
Not every job title is included. If you cannot find your exact job title, try
searching for similar jobs.
Make sure the job description matches what you’ll be doing. Some jobs in the
same area of practice have different codes, for example dentists and dental
hygiene therapists.
Check if an occupation code is eligible to apply for this visa
You can apply for a Health and Care Worker visa if your job is in one of the
following occupation codes:
1171: health services and public health managers and directors
1232: residential, day and domiciliary care managers and proprietors
2113: biochemists and biomedical scientists
2114: physical scientists
2211: generalist medical practitioners
2212: specialist medical practitioners
2221: physiotherapists
2222: occupational therapists
 
 5/39

2223: speech and language therapists
2224: psychotherapists and cognitive behaviour therapists
2225: clinical psychologists
2226: other psychologists
2229: therapy professionals not elsewhere classified
2231: midwifery nurses
2232: registered community nurses
2233: registered specialist nurses
2234: registered nurse practitioners
2235: registered mental health nurses
2236: registered children’s nurses
2237: other registered nursing professionals
2251: pharmacists
2252: optometrists
2253: dental practitioners
2254: medical radiographers
2255: paramedics
2256: podiatrists
2259: other health professionals not elsewhere classified
2461: social workers
3111: laboratory technicians
3212: pharmaceutical technicians
6131: nursing auxiliaries and assistants
Check if an occupation code is eligible to extend, update or switch to
this visa
If you’re extending, updating or switching to a Health and Care Worker visa,
your job can also be in one of the following ‘medium skilled’ occupation codes:
6135: care workers and home carers
6136: senior care workers
 
 6/39

If you’re switching from a different visa, you must have been working legally in
your job for your sponsor for at least 3 months.
If you’re extending or updating your visa and you got your certificate of
sponsorship before 22 July 2025, your job can also be in one of the following
‘medium skilled’ occupation codes:
1231: health care practice managers
3211: dispensing opticians
3213: medical and dental technicians
3219: health associate professionals not elsewhere classified
6132: ambulance staff (excluding paramedics)
6133: dental nurses 
You must have continually held one or more Health and Care Worker visas or
Skilled Worker visas since you got your certificate of sponsorship.
Approved UK health and care sector employers
You must have a job offer from an approved UK employer before you apply for
a Health and Care Worker visa. Approved employers are also known as
sponsors, because they are sponsoring you to come to or stay in the UK.
You must have a job offer from:
the NHS
an organisation providing medical services to the NHS
an organisation providing adult social care
Read the guidance (/government/publications/health-and-care-visa-guidance-for-
applicants) to see a full list of eligible employers.
If your employer is not currently approved, they can apply for a sponsor
licence (/uk-visa-sponsorship-employers) if they’re eligible.
They’ll need to pay a fee - £574 for small businesses and charities or £1,579
for medium and large organisations. It usually takes around 8 weeks to
process a licence application.
If you’re a care worker or senior care worker
 
 7/39

Your employer must be registered with the Care Quality Commission if you’re
a care worker (code 6135) or senior care worker (code 6136) working in
England.
Check if your employer is registered with the Care Quality Commission
(
If you already have a job offer from an approved
employer
Your employer - also known as your sponsor - will check that you meet the
eligibility requirements. They’ll give you a ‘certificate of sponsorship’ to prove
this.
The certificate of sponsorship is an electronic record, not a physical document.
It will have a reference number, which you’ll need for your visa application.
You must apply for your visa within 3 months of getting your certificate of
sponsorship.
Check which documents you’ll need to apply (/health-care-worker-visa/documents-
you-must-provide).
Salary requirements
You’ll usually need to be paid at least £25,000.
If the ‘going rate’ for your job is higher than £25,000, you’ll usually need to be
paid at least the going rate.
Each occupation code has its own annual going rate. How you find the going
rate depends on your job.
When you need to meet different salary requirements
You’ll need to meet different salary requirements for this visa if your job is in
one of the following occupation codes:
1171: health services and public health managers and directors
1231: health care practice managers
1232: residential, day and domiciliary care managers and proprietors
 
 8/39

2113: biochemists and biomedical scientists
2114: physical scientists
3111: laboratory technicians
3211: dispensing opticians
3212: pharmaceutical technicians
6135: care workers and home carers
6136: senior care workers
Find out the going rate if your job is in one of these occupation codes (/health-
care-worker-visa/different-salary-requirements) - including when your employer can
pay you less.
If you’re doing any other health and care job
Check how much you need to be paid in the table of national pay scales for
eligible healthcare jobs (/government/publications/national-pay-scales-for-eligible-
healthcare-jobs).
Salaries are listed by NHS pay band and area of the UK you’ll be working in.
Ask your employer if you’re not sure what your role or pay band will be.
3. If you’ll need to meet different salaryrequirements
You’ll need to meet different salary requirements for this visa if your job is in
one of the following occupation codes:
1171: health services and public health managers and directors
1231: health care practice managers
1232: residential, day and domiciliary care managers and proprietors
2113: biochemists and biomedical scientists
2114: physical scientists
3111: laboratory technicians
3211: dispensing opticians
3212: pharmaceutical technicians
6135: care workers and home carers
6136: senior care workers
 
 9/39

If your job is in any other occupation code that is eligible for this visa, you
must meet the salary requirements described in ‘Your job’ (/health-care-
worker-visa/your-job).
Salary requirements
You’ll usually need to be paid at least £31,300 per year, or the lower ‘going
rate’ for your job, whichever is higher. 
Example
Your salary is £32,000 per year, but the annual lower going rate for the job
you’ll be doing is £33,000. You do not meet the usual salary requirements
for this visa. 
Each occupation code has its own annual lower going rate. Check the lower
going rate for your job in the going rates table (/government/publications/skilled-
worker-visa-going-rates-for-eligible-occupations).
When you can be paid less
You might still be able to apply for a Health and Care Worker visa if your job is
eligible but your salary is less than £31,300 or your job’s lower ‘going rate’.
You can be paid between 70% and 90% of the lower going rate for your job if
your salary is at least £25,000 per year and you meet one of the following
criteria:
you’re under 26, studying or a recent graduate, or in professional training
you have a science, technology, engineering or maths (STEM) PhD level
qualification that’s relevant to your job (if you have a relevant PhD level
qualification in any other subject your salary must be at least £28,200)
you have a postdoctoral position in a scientific role
You cannot get a discounted salary rate if your job is on the immigration salary
list.
 
 10/39

Your job is on the immigration salary list
The immigration salary list is a list of skilled jobs which have lower salary
requirements. 
If your job is on the immigration salary list, you need to be paid at least
£25,000 or your job’s full going rate, whichever is higher.
View the immigration salary list (/government/publications/skilled-worker-visa-
immigration-salary-list) to see how much you’ll need to be paid.
You’re under 26, studying or a recent graduate, or in professional
training
You can be paid 70% of your job’s lower going rate if your salary will be at
least £25,000 per year and one of the following applies:
you’re under 26 on the date you apply
you’re currently in the UK on a Student visa (/student-visa) studying at
bachelor’s degree level or above - or you have been in the last 2 years, and
a Student or visit visa (/browse/visas-immigration/tourist-short-stay-visas) was
your most recent visa
you’ll be working towards a recognised qualification in a UK regulated
profession (/government/publications/professions-regulated-by-law-in-the-uk-and-
their-regulators/uk-regulated-professions-and-their-regulators)
you’ll be working towards full registration or chartered status in the job
you’re being sponsored for
If this applies to you, check how much you’ll need to be paid
(/government/publications/skilled-worker-visa-eligible-salary-if-youre-under-26-
studying-training-or-in-a-postdoctoral-role) to qualify for this visa.
Your total stay in the UK cannot be more than 4 years if you apply for one
of these reasons. This includes any time you’ve already spent in the UK on
a Tier 2 (General) work visa.
You have a PhD level qualification that’s relevant to your job
You can be paid 80% or 90% of the job’s lower going rate, depending on which
subject you are qualified in. 
 
 11/39

If you have a science, technology, engineering or maths (STEM) qualification,
you can be paid 80% of your job’s lower going rate, as long as you will still be
paid at least £25,000 per year.
If you have a non-STEM qualification, you can be paid 90% of your job’s lower
going rate, as long as you will still be paid at least £28,200 a year.
In both situations, you must:
have a UK PhD or an equivalent doctorate-level qualification from a
university outside the UK - you’ll need to apply through Ecctis
( to check if an overseas qualification is equivalent to a
UK PhD
be able to prove your qualification is relevant to the job you’ll be doing in the
UK - your employer can confirm this
View the list of jobs that qualify for a PhD salary discount
(/government/publications/skilled-worker-visa-jobs-that-qualify-for-a-phd-salary-
discount) to see how much you need to be paid.
If you’re a research or academic leader, you may also be eligible to apply
for the Global Talent visa (/global-talent-researcher-academic). This visa has
no language or minimum salary requirements.
You have a postdoctoral position in a scientific role
You can be paid 70% of your job’s lower going rate if your salary will be at
least £25,000 per year and you’ll be working in a postdoctoral position in either
of the following occupation codes:
2113: biochemists and biomedical scientists
2114: physical scientists
Check how much you’ll need to be paid (/government/publications/skilled-worker-
visa-eligible-salary-if-youre-under-26-studying-training-or-in-a-postdoctoral-role) to
qualify for this visa.
Your total stay in the UK cannot be more than 4 years if you apply to work
in a postdoctoral position at 70% of the lower going rate. This includes any
time you’ve already spent in the UK on a Tier 2 (General) work visa.
 
 12/39

4. Knowledge of English
You usually need to prove your knowledge of the English language when you
apply. You can prove it in one of the following ways, by:
having a UK school qualification
having a degree from a UK institution
having a degree from an institution that was outside the UK and taught in
English
passing an English test from an approved provider
If you have already proved your knowledge of English in a previous successful
visa application, you may not have to prove it again.
If you have a UK school qualification
You can prove your knowledge of English if you have a qualification from a UK
school that you began when you were under 18. You must have one of the
following qualifications:
a GCSE
an A Level
Scottish National Qualification level 4 or 5
Scottish Higher or Advanced Higher in English
If you have a degree from a UK institution
You can prove your knowledge of English if you have a degree-level
qualification that was both:
taught in English
awarded by a UK institution, even if you studied outside the UK
If you have a degree from an institution outside the UK
If your degree was taught in English and was not awarded by a UK institution,
you’ll need to apply for an assessment from Ecctis (
 
 13/39

Ecctis will give you a code to confirm that your qualification is equivalent to a
UK bachelor’s degree or higher and was taught in English.
Passing an English test
If you do not have any qualifications that prove your knowledge of English, you
will need to pass a Secure English Language Test (SELT) (/guidance/prove-your-
english-language-abilities-with-a-secure-english-language-test-selt) with an approved
provider.
You must prove you can read, write, speak and understand English to at least
level B1 on the Common European Framework of Reference for Languages
(CEFR) scale (
languages/table-1-cefr-3.3-common-reference-levels-global-scale).
Who does not need to prove their knowledge of English
You do not need to prove your knowledge of English if you’re a national of one
of the following countries or territories:
Antigua and Barbuda
Australia
the Bahamas
Barbados
Belize
the British overseas territories
Canada
Dominica
Grenada
Guyana
Jamaica
Malta
New Zealand
St Kitts and Nevis
St Lucia
St Vincent and the Grenadines
 
 14/39

Trinidad and Tobago
USA
If you’re a doctor, dentist, nurse or midwife 
You do not need to prove your knowledge of English if you’ve already passed
an English Language assessment that is accepted by the relevant regulated
professional body.
5. How much it costs
When you apply for a Health and Care Worker visa, you’ll need to have
enough money to:
pay the application fee
support yourself when you arrive in the UK - you’ll usually need to have at
least £1,270 available (unless you’re exempt)
You’ll be told how much you need to pay when you apply.
Application fees
The standard application fee depends on whether you’ll be in the UK for:
up to 3 years - £304 per person
more than 3 years - £590 per person
The fee is the same whether you apply from inside or outside the UK.
Money to support yourself
You must have at least £1,270 in your bank account to show you can support
yourself in the UK.
You will need to have had the money available for at least 28 days in a row.
Day 28 must be within 31 days of applying for this visa.
You’ll usually need to show proof of this when you apply (/health-care-worker-
visa/documents-you-must-provide), unless either:
you’ve been in the UK with a valid visa for at least 12 months
your employer can cover your costs during your first month in the UK
 
 15/39

Your partner and children will also need to prove they can support themselves
while they’re in the UK. Check how much they’ll need (/health-care-worker-
visa/your-partner-and-children).
Read the guidance on financial evidence (/guidance/financial-evidence-for-
sponsored-or-endorsed-work-routes) for more information about the money you
need and how to prove it.
If your employer can support you instead
Your certificate of sponsorship must confirm this. Your employer will need to
complete the ‘sponsor certifies maintenance’ section on your certificate. This is
under ‘Additional data’.
6. Documents you'll need to apply
When you apply you’ll need to provide:
your certificate of sponsorship reference number - your employer will give
you this
proof of your knowledge of English (/health-care-worker-visa/knowledge-of-
english)
a valid passport or other document that shows your identity and nationality
your job title and annual salary
your job’s occupation code
the name of your employer and their sponsor licence number - this will be
on your certificate of sponsorship
Ask your employer for a copy of your certificate of sponsorship if you do
not have one.
Other documents you might need
Depending on your circumstances, you might be asked to provide:
evidence that you have enough personal savings to support yourself in the
UK (/health-care-worker-visa/how-much-it-costs), for example bank statements
(unless your certificate of sponsorship shows your employer can support
you)
proof of your relationship with your partner or children (/health-care-worker-
visa/your-partner-and-children) if they’re applying with you
 
 16/39

your tuberculosis test results if you’re from a listed country (/tb-test-
visa/countries-where-you-need-a-tb-test-to-enter-the-uk)
a criminal record certificate - if you’re working in certain jobs
your UK PhD certificate or your unique Ecctis reference number if your
qualification is from outside the UK - you’ll need to apply through Ecctis
(
If your documents are not in English or Welsh you’ll also need to provide a
certified translation (/certifying-a-document).
Criminal record certificate
You’ll need to provide a criminal record certificate if you’re applying from
outside the UK, unless your job is in one of the following occupation codes:
2113: biochemists and biomedical scientists
2114: physical scientists
3111: laboratory technicians
6132: ambulance staff (excluding paramedics)
Check how to apply for criminal records checks
(/government/publications/criminal-records-checks-for-overseas-applicants).
If you’ve lived in more than one country
You might need to provide a certificate from each country you’ve lived in,
depending on your age and how long you stayed in each country.
If you’re under 28, you’ll need a certificate from any country you’ve stayed in
for a total of 12 months or more since you turned 18.
If you’re 28 or over, you’ll need a certificate from any country you’ve stayed in
over the last 10 years.
7. Apply from outside the UK
You must apply online for a Health and Care Worker visa.
Check which documents you’ll need to apply (/health-care-worker-visa/documents-
you-must-provide).
 
 17/39

Proving your identity and providing supporting
documents
As part of your application, you’ll need to prove your identity. How you do this
depends on where you’re from and what type of passport you have.
You’ll either:
use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan your identity document -
you’ll also create or sign into your UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) account
have your fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a visa
application centre (/find-a-visa-application-centre)
You’ll be told what you need to do when you apply.
If you do need an appointment:
you’ll need to take your passport with you to the visa application centre
(you’ll be able to collect it on the day)
you may have to travel to get to your nearest centre (this could be in another
country)
Apply for a Health and Care Worker visa
Apply for a Skilled Worker visa. You’ll be asked if you’re applying for a Health
and Care Worker visa as part of your application - make sure you choose ‘yes’.
Once you’ve started your application, you can save your form and complete it
later.
Continue your application
You can sign back in to your application if you’ve saved it.
Find out how to sign in to your account (/sign-in-visa).
Apply now
 
 18/39

How long it takes to get a decision
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your
documents, you’ll usually get a decision within 3 weeks.
You’ll be contacted if your application will take longer, for example because:
your supporting documents need to be verified
you need to attend an interview
of your personal circumstances, for example if you have a criminal
conviction
You may be able to pay to get a faster decision (/faster-decision-visa-settlement).
After you apply
You can ask to cancel your application (/cancel-visa). You’ll only get your fee
refunded if UKVI has not started processing your application.
You’ll get an email containing the decision on your application (/apply-to-come-
to-the-uk/getting-a-decision-on-your-application). This will explain what you need to
do next.
8. Your partner and children
Your partner and children may be able to apply to join you or stay in the UK as
your ‘dependants’ if they’re eligible.
If your partner or child’s application is successful, their visa will usually end on
the same date as yours. If a child’s parents have visas with different expiry
dates, the child’s visa will end on the earlier date.
A dependant partner or child is any of the following:
your husband, wife, civil partner or unmarried partner
your child under 18 - including if they were born in the UK during your stay
your child over 18 if they currently have permission (‘leave to enter’ or ‘leave
to remain’) to be in the UK as your dependant
You’ll need to provide evidence of your relationship to your dependant when
you apply.
 
 19/39

If you’re the first person in your family to apply, you can get a ‘family linking
code’ to connect your applications together. Your family members can enter
the same code when they apply.
If you’re a care worker or senior care worker
Your partner and children may be able to apply to join you or stay in the UK as
your dependants. One of the following must be true:
you have been continually employed in the UK as a care worker or senior
care worker and on a Health and Care Worker visa or a Skilled Worker visa
since before 11 March 2024
you’re applying for a child born in the UK
you’re the only living parent responsible for your child and you’re applying
for permission for your child to stay in the UK
your child’s other parent is also sponsored as a care worker or senior care
worker and you’re applying for permission for your child to stay in the UK
If your occupation code is a ‘medium skilled’ job (not
care worker or senior care worker)
If your job is listed as ‘medium skilled’ (/government/publications/skilled-worker-
visa-eligible-occupations), your partner and children may be able to apply to join
you or stay in the UK as your dependants. One of the following must be true:
you have been continually employed in the UK on a Health and Care
Worker visa or a Skilled Worker visa and in a ‘medium skilled’ job since
before 22 July 2025 
you’re applying for a child born in the UK
you’re the only living parent responsible for your child and you’re applying
for permission for your child to stay in the UK
your child’s other parent is also sponsored for a job listed as ‘medium
skilled’ and you’re applying for permission for your child to stay in the UK
Your partner
You must be able to prove one of the following:
 
 20/39

you’re in a civil partnership or marriage that’s recognised in the UK
you’ve been living together in a relationship for at least 2 years when you
apply
you’ve been in a relationship for at least 2 years when you apply but you
cannot live together, for example because you’re working or studying in
different places, or it’s not accepted in your culture
If you’re not living together, you’ll need to prove that you have an ongoing
commitment to each other, for example by providing evidence that you:
communicate regularly with each other
support each other financially
care for any children you have together
spend time together as a couple, for example on holiday or at events
Your child
They must:
live with you, unless they’re living away from home in full-time education -
for example, at boarding school or university
not be married or in a civil partnership
You’ll need to provide evidence of their address, such as:
a bank statement
credit card bills
driving licence
NHS registration document
an official letter from their university or college
Money they need to support themselves
Your partner and children must have a certain amount of money available to
support themselves while they’re in the UK.
You - or your partner or child - will need:
£285 for your partner
 
 21/39

£315 for one child
£200 for each additional child
Example
You - or your partner or child - would need to have £600 to bring your
partner and one child with you to the UK (£285 for your partner and £315
for your child).
You would also need to have £1,270 available to support yourself for your
own application.
You - or your partner or child - will need to have had the money available for at
least 28 days in a row. Day 28 must be within 31 days of you or them applying
for this visa.
You’ll usually need to show proof of this when they apply (/health-care-worker-
visa/documents-you-must-provide), unless either:
you have all been in the UK with a valid visa for at least 12 months
your employer can cover your family’s costs during your first month in the
UK - this must be confirmed on your certificate of sponsorship
If your partner or child is applying at a different time to you, they’ll only need to
prove they have enough money to support themselves if they have been in the
UK for less than 1 year.
Apply from outside the UK
Each family member will have to pay the application fee. The fee depends on
whether they’ll be in the UK for:
up to 3 years - £304 per person
more than 3 years - £590 per person
Your partner and children must either:
apply online as your partner outside the UK (
uk.homeoffice.gov.uk/sort/start/pbs_dependant_partner_out_uk)
apply online as your child outside the UK (
uk.homeoffice.gov.uk/sort/start/pbs_dependant_child_out_uk)
 
 22/39

Each family member will need to complete a separate application and pay the
visa fee. They must apply before they travel to the UK.
They’ll also need your application number - you’ll get this when you apply. This
number is called a Global Web Form (GWF) or a Unique Application Number
(UAN). You’ll find it on emails and letters from the Home Office about your
application.
They can also enter a ‘family linking code’ if you got one when you applied.
This will connect your applications.
Proving their identity
As part of an application, your partner and children will need to prove their
identity.
They’ll either:
use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan their identity document -
they’ll also create or sign into their UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI)
account
have their fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a visa
application centre (/find-a-visa-application-centre)
They’ll be told what they need to do when they apply.
If they need an appointment:
they’ll need to take their passport with them to the visa application centre
(they’ll be able to collect it on the day)
they may have to travel to get to their nearest centre (this could be in
another country)
Getting a decision
Once they’ve applied online, proved their identity and provided their
documents, they’ll usually get a decision within 3 weeks.
They may be able to pay to get a faster decision (/faster-decision-visa-settlement).
If their application is successful, their decision email (/apply-to-come-to-the-
uk/getting-a-decision-on-your-application) will tell them what they’ll get to prove
their immigration status and what they need to do next.
 
 23/39

Apply from inside the UK (extend or switch their visa)
If you extend or switch your visa, your partner or child’s current visa will still be
valid until its original end date. Your partner or child need to apply to extend or
switch their visa, either:
at the same time as you
at any time before their current visa expires
This includes children who have turned 18 during your stay.
Your partner or children cannot apply to switch to your Health and Care
Worker visa as your dependants if they are currently in the UK:
on a visit visa
on a short-term student visa
on a Parent of a Child Student visa
on a seasonal worker visa
on a domestic worker in a private household visa
on immigration bail (/bail-immigration-detainees)
because they were given permission to stay outside the immigration rules
(/government/publications/chapter-1-section-14-leave-outside-the-immigration-rules),
for example on compassionate grounds
If your partner or child is currently in the UK on a Student visa, they can only
switch if they have either:
completed the course they were sponsored to study
studied for a PhD for at least 24 months
How to apply
The application form will tell you if you can include your partner and children in
your application or whether they need to apply separately.
If your partner or child apply separately, they’ll need to either:
apply online as your partner inside the UK (
uk.homeoffice.gov.uk/sort/start/brp_reuse_pbs_dependant_partner_in_uk)
 
 24/39

apply online as your child inside the UK (
uk.homeoffice.gov.uk/sort/start/brp_reuse_pbs_dependant_child_in_uk)
They’ll need your application number - you’ll get this when you apply. This
number is called a Global Web Form (GWF) or a Unique Application Number
(UAN). You’ll find it on emails and letters from the Home Office about your
application.
They can also enter a ‘family linking code’ if you got one when you applied.
This will connect your applications.
Proving their identity
As part of their application, your partner and children will need to prove their
identity.
They’ll either:
use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan their identity document -
they’ll also create or sign into their UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI)
account
have their fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a UK Visa
and Citizenship Application Services (UKVCAS) (/ukvcas) service point
They’ll be told what they need to do when they apply.
They must not travel outside of the UK, Ireland, the Channel Islands or the
Isle of Man until they get a decision. Their application will be withdrawn if
they do.
How long it takes to get a decision
Once they’ve applied online, proved their identity and provided their
documents, they’ll usually get a decision within 8 weeks.
They may be able to pay to get a faster decision (/faster-decision-visa-settlement).
Children born in the UK
If you have a child while you’re in the UK, they do not automatically become a
British citizen (/british-citizenship).
 
 25/39

You must apply for your child’s dependant visa if you want to travel in and out
of the UK with them.
The form you fill in depends on whether your child is inside or outside the UK.
Your child must either:
apply online as your child inside the UK (
uk.homeoffice.gov.uk/sort/start/brp_reuse_pbs_dependant_child_in_uk)
apply online as your child outside the UK (
uk.homeoffice.gov.uk/sort/start/pbs_dependant_child_out_uk)
You’ll need to provide a full UK birth certificate for each child, showing the
names of both parents.
You must apply to add them to your visa before they turn 18 if they want to
stay in the UK.
What your partner or child can and cannot do
Your partner or child can:
work, except as a sportsperson or coach
study
travel abroad and return to the UK
apply to settle permanently in the UK (also known as ‘indefinite leave to
remain’) if they’ve lived in the UK for 5 years and meet the other eligibility
requirements
They cannot apply for most benefits (public funds), or the State Pension.
If their application is successful, they’ll get a full list of what they can and
cannot do.
9. Extend your visa
You can usually apply to extend your Health and Care Worker visa if all of the
following are true:
you have the same job as when you were given your previous permission to
enter or stay in the UK
your job is in the same occupation code (/health-care-worker-visa/your-job) as
when you were given your previous permission to enter or stay in the UK
 
 26/39

you’re still working for the employer who gave you your current certificate of
sponsorship
you still meet the salary requirements (/health-care-worker-visa/your-job)
You must not travel outside of the UK, Ireland, the Channel Islands or the
Isle of Man until you get a decision. Your application will be withdrawn if
you do.
Your partner and children
Your partner or child’s visa will not automatically extend if you extend yours. If
they do not extend their visa, it will be valid until its original end date.
They can either apply at the same time as you, or at any time before their
current visa expires.
Check if your partner and children can stay in the UK as your dependants
(/health-care-worker-visa/your-partner-and-children) when you extend your visa.
If you have a Tier 2 Health and Care Worker visa
You’ll have a Tier 2 Health and Care Worker visa if either:
you applied for a Health and Care Worker visa before 1 December 2020
you had a Tier 2 (General) work visa which you’ve extended as a Health and
Care Worker visa
If you have this visa, you may be able to meet different eligibility requirements.
If you got your certificate of sponsorship on or after 24 November 2016
If you apply to extend before 1 December 2026, you will still need to meet the
salary requirements (/health-care-worker-visa/your-job), but your salary may also
include allowances, such as London weighting. Any allowances must be
guaranteed for the length of your stay.
If you’re a physical scientist
 
 27/39

If you were sponsored for your Tier 2 (General) or Health and Care Worker
visa before 1 December 2020, the going rate for your job is different.
Occupation
code
Going rate
for Health
and Care
Worker
visa
90% of
going rate
(for
relevant
STEM
PhD)
80% of going rate
(for relevant non-
STEM PhD or
immigration
salary list
occupation)
70% of
going rate
(for new
entrants)
2114
Physical
scientists
£27,190
(£13.94 per
hour)
£25,000
(£12.82 per
hour)
£25,000 (£12.82
per hour)
£25,000
(£12.82 per
hour)
If you’ve changed job or employer
You’ll need to apply to update your visa (/health-care-worker-visa/update-your-visa-
if-you-change-job-or-employer) instead.
Fees
Check how much it costs (/health-care-worker-visa/how-much-it-costs) for your
type of visa.
You’ll need to have your fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken -
there’s no fee for this.
Proving your identity and providing supporting
documents
As part of your application you’ll need to prove your identity. How you do this
depends on where you’re from and the type of passport or resident permit you
have.
You’ll either:
use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan your identity document -
you’ll also create or sign into your UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) account
have your fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a UK Visa
and Citizenship Application Services (UKVCAS) (/ukvcas) service point
 
 28/39

You’ll be told what you need to do when you apply.
Apply to extend your Health and Care Worker visa
Apply for a Skilled Worker visa. You’ll be asked if you’re applying for a Health
and Care Worker visa as part of your application - make sure you choose ‘yes’.
You must apply online before your current visa expires.
Once you’ve started your application, you can save your form and complete it
later.
Continue your application
You can sign back into your application if you’ve saved it.
Find out how to sign in to your account (/sign-in-visa).
How long it takes to get a decision
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your
documents, you’ll usually get a decision within 3 weeks.
You’ll be contacted if your application will take longer, for example because:
your supporting documents need to be verified
you need to attend an interview
of your personal circumstances, for example if you have a criminal
conviction
You may be able to pay to get a faster decision (/faster-decision-visa-settlement).
After you apply
If you need to change something in your application after you’ve sent it contact
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) (/contact-ukvi-inside-outside-uk).
Apply now
 
 29/39

You can ask to cancel your application (/cancel-visa). You’ll only get your fee
refunded if UKVI has not started processing your application.
You’ll get an email or a letter containing the decision on your application
(/apply-to-come-to-the-uk/getting-a-decision-on-your-application). This will explain
what you need to do next.
10. Update your visa if you change job oremployer
You’ll need to apply to update your Health and Care Worker visa if:
you want to change your job and your new job is with a different employer
your job changes to a different occupation code, and you’re not in a
graduate training programme
you leave a job that’s on the immigration salary list
(
list) for a job that is not on the list
The same conditions apply to Tier 2 Health and Care visas issued before 1
December 2020.
You do not need to apply again if you stay in the same job, but your job is
taken off the immigration salary list.
If you’ll be doing a different job for your current employer, you only need to
update your visa if your new job is in a different occupation code (/health-care-
worker-visa/your-job).
Your partner or child’s visa will not automatically change if you update yours. If
they do not update their visa, it will be valid until its original end date. They can
either apply at the same time as you, or at any time before their current visa
expires.
Check if your partner and children can stay in the UK as your dependants
(/health-care-worker-visa/your-partner-and-children) when you update your visa.
If you’re a care worker or senior care worker
If you change your employer and you’re working in England, your new
employer must be registered with the Care Quality Commission.
 
 30/39

Check if your employer is registered with the Care Quality Commission
(
Fees
Check how much it costs (/health-care-worker-visa/how-much-it-costs) for your
type of visa.
You’ll need to have your fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken -
there’s no fee for this.
Eligibility and documents you’ll need to apply
Your new job must meet the eligibility requirements (/health-care-worker-
visa/your-job) and you’ll need a new certificate of sponsorship to prove this.
You’ll only need to provide other evidence (/health-care-worker-visa/documents-
you-must-provide) again if you’ve been in the UK for less than one year.
If you’re applying to add a second job to your current visa
You must apply to update your visa if you take on additional work that is more
than 20 paid hours a week in addition to the job you’re being sponsored for.
Your second job must meet the eligibility requirements (/health-care-worker-
visa/your-job) and you’ll need a new certificate of sponsorship to prove this.
You’ll also need to include a letter with your application explaining that you
want to change your current permission to stay.
Your letter must state:
your name
your date of birth
your current certificate of sponsorship reference number
the date when your current permission to stay runs out
If your application is successful, you’ll get a new visa giving you permission to
do both jobs.
 
 31/39

You do not need to apply to update your visa if you’re taking on additional
work (/health-care-worker-visa/taking-a-second-job) in an eligible occupation
code and you’ll be doing less than 20 hours a week.
When to apply to update your visa
You can apply to update your visa up to 3 months before the start date of your
new job.
You can continue working in your current job while your new application is
being considered, or to work out your notice period - as long as you apply
before your current visa expires.
You should not start your new job until you’ve got confirmation of your new
permission.
You must not travel outside of the UK, Ireland, the Channel Islands or the
Isle of Man until you get a decision. Your application will be withdrawn if
you do.
Proving your identity and providing supporting
documents
As part of your application you’ll need to prove your identity.
How you do this depends on where you’re from and the type of passport you
have.
You’ll either:
use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan your identity document -
you’ll also create or sign into your UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) account
have your fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a UK Visa
and Citizenship Application Services (UKVCAS) (/ukvcas) service point
You’ll be told what you need to do when you apply. You’ll also be told how to
provide your supporting documents if you need to.
 
 32/39

Apply to update your visa
You must apply online for a Skilled Worker visa. You’ll be asked if you’re
applying for a Health and Care Worker visa as part of your application - make
sure you choose ‘yes’.
Once you’ve started your application, you can save your form and complete it
later.
Continue your application
You can sign back in to your application if you’ve saved it.
Find out how to sign in to your account (/sign-in-visa).
How long it takes to get a decision
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your
documents, you’ll usually get a decision within 3 weeks.
You’ll be contacted if your application will take longer, for example because:
your supporting documents need to be verified
you need to attend an interview
of your personal circumstances, for example if you have a criminal
conviction
You may be able to pay to get a faster decision (/faster-decision-visa-settlement).
After you apply
If you need to change something in your application after you’ve sent it contact
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) (/contact-ukvi-inside-outside-uk).
You can ask to cancel your application (/cancel-visa). You’ll only get your fee
refunded if UKVI has not started processing your application.
Apply now
 
 33/39

You’ll get an email or a letter containing the decision on your application
(/apply-to-come-to-the-uk/getting-a-decision-on-your-application). This will explain
what you need to do next.
11. Switch to this visa
You might be able to apply to change (‘switch’) to a Health and Care Worker
visa if you’re already in the UK on a different type of visa.
You must not travel outside of the UK, Ireland, the Channel Islands or the
Isle of Man until you get a decision. Your application will be withdrawn if
you do.
Your partner and children
Your partner or child’s visa will not automatically switch to this visa if you
switch yours. If they do not switch their visa, it will be valid until its original end
date.
They can either apply at the same time as you, or at any time before their
current visa expires.
If you’re switching to this visa as a care worker or senior care worker, your
partner or children will not be able to switch as your dependants to this
visa.
Eligibility
You must meet the following requirements:
your job meets the eligibility requirements (/health-care-worker-visa/your-job)
you can speak, read, write and understand English (/health-care-worker-
visa/knowledge-of-english)
If you’re currently in the UK on a Student visa, you must also meet one of the
following requirements:
you have completed the course you were sponsored to study
your job start date is after your course has finished
you’re studying for a PhD full time, and have been for at least 24 months
 
 34/39

If you’re switching to this visa as a care worker or senior care worker
You must have been working legally in your job for your sponsor for at least 3
months.
Who cannot apply to switch to this visa
You cannot apply to switch to this visa if you’re currently in the UK:
on a visit visa
on a short-term student visa
on a Parent of a Child Student visa
on a seasonal worker visa
on a domestic worker in a private household visa
on immigration bail (/bail-immigration-detainees)
because you were given permission to stay outside the immigration rules
(/government/publications/chapter-1-section-14-leave-outside-the-immigration-rules),
for example on compassionate grounds
You must leave the UK and apply for a Health and Care Worker visa from
abroad (/health-care-worker-visa/apply-from-outside-the-uk) if you’re in one of these
categories.
How long you can stay
You can stay in the UK for as long as your employer is sponsoring you for, up
to 5 years at a time. Your certificate of sponsorship will say how long your
employer is sponsoring you for.
Fees
Check how much it costs (/health-care-worker-visa/how-much-it-costs) for your
type of visa.
You’ll need to have your fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken -
there’s no fee for this.
 
 35/39

Proving your identity and providing supporting
documents
As part of your application you’ll need to prove your identity.
How you do this depends on where you’re from and the type of passport you
have.
You’ll either:
use the ‘UK Immigration: ID Check’ app to scan your identity document -
you’ll also create or sign into your UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) account
have your fingerprints and photo (biometric information) taken at a UK Visa
and Citizenship Application Services (UKVCAS) (/ukvcas) service point
You’ll be told what you need to do when you apply.
Apply to switch to a Health and Care Worker visa
You must apply online before your current visa expires.
Apply for a Skilled Worker visa. You’ll be asked if you’re applying for a Health
and Care Worker visa as part of your application - make sure you choose ‘yes’.
Once you’ve started your application, you can save your form and complete it
later.
Continue your application
You can sign back in to your application if you’ve saved it.
Find out how to sign in to your account (/sign-in-visa).
How long it takes to get a decision
Once you’ve applied online, proved your identity and provided your
documents, you’ll usually get a decision within 3 weeks.
Apply now
 
 36/39

You’ll be contacted if your application will take longer, for example because:
your supporting documents need to be verified
you need to attend an interview
of your personal circumstances, for example if you have a criminal
conviction
You may be able to pay to get a faster decision (/faster-decision-visa-settlement).
After you apply
If you need to change something in your application after you’ve sent it contact
UK Visas and Immigration (UKVI) (/contact-ukvi-inside-outside-uk).
You can ask to cancel your application (/cancel-visa). You’ll only get your fee
refunded if UKVI has not started processing your application.
You’ll get an email or a letter containing the decision on your application
(/apply-to-come-to-the-uk/getting-a-decision-on-your-application). This will explain
what you need to do next.
12. Taking on additional work
You can do additional paid work on a Health and Care Worker visa as long as
you’re still doing the job you’re being sponsored for.
If you complete your GP training, you can do 4 months of additional paid
work.
You may need to apply to update your visa to do additional paid work. This will
depend on the type of work you’re doing and the hours you’re going to work.
If you work overtime in the job you’re being sponsored for, you do not need to
update your visa. 
There’s no limit to how many hours of overtime you can do.
You can also work up to 20 hours a week in another job or for your own
business, as long as you’re still doing the job you’re being sponsored for. 
Your work must be either:
an eligible occupation code (/government/publications/skilled-worker-visa-eligible-
occupations) that is a ‘higher skilled’ job
 
 37/39

on the immigration salary list (/government/publications/skilled-worker-visa-
immigration-salary-list)
in the same sector and at the same level as your main job
You can only do additional work in a job listed as ‘medium skilled’
(/government/publications/skilled-worker-visa-eligible-occupations) if both of the
following apply:
you got your certificate of sponsorship for your first Tier 2 or Health and
Care Worker visa before 22 July 2025 
you have continually held one or more Health and Care Worker visas since
then
You can also do voluntary work. This must be unpaid (except for reasonable
expenses such as travel) and for one of the following:
a registered charity (/find-charity-information)
a voluntary organisation 
an associated fundraising body (an organisation that raises money for a
charity or voluntary organisation)
a statutory body (a government-appointed body, for example Historic
England)
When you need to update your visa
You must update your visa if your additional job is more than 20 hours a week.
You do not need to update it if you’re:
working overtime in the job you’re being sponsored for
working ‘bank shifts’ for your NHS sponsor
Apply to update your visa
To apply, you’ll need to:
get a new certificate of sponsorship from your second employer
include a letter with your application explaining that you want to change your
current permission to stay
 
 38/39

Apply to update your visa (/health-care-worker-visa/update-your-visa-if-you-change-
job-or-employer).

 39/39